# Operating-System-Scheduling-Simulator <br>
## Project Description <br>
This program was my final project in CS480 Operating Systems. Its purpose is to demonstrate my knowledge of key elements that enable an operating system to run effectively and efficiently. This program takes two files, a configuration file and a metadata file. From these sources of input, the program will simulate the runtime it takes for a computer with a single core to process and run every command.

## Configuration File <br>
The configuration file holds data that determines how the simulated operating system will process these commands. This file contains: 
- File start command
- Version of the file
- File path to the metadata file
- Cpu scheduling type
- Quantum time (number of CPU cycles before context switch)
- Total available memory (doesn't use physical computer memory. Only simulates)
- Memory display switch
- Processor cycle time (time per CPU cycle)
- I/O cycle time (time per device cycle)
- Log to code (choose to display to monitor, write to file, or both)
- Log to file path (choose a file to write to, create one if doesn't exist)
- File end command

## Metadata File <br>
The metadata file contains data that the simulator interprets. This file can contain the following codes:
- mem (memory commands)
  - allocate 0000, xxxx (allocates a block of memory associated with a process)
  - access 0000, xxxx (accesses an allocated block of memory associated with a process)
- cpu, x (cpu command that runs a certain number of cycles
- dev (device commands)
  - in, x (device input command that runs for a certain number of cycles)
  - out, x (device output command that runs for a certain number of cycles)

## How to use <br>
The program file needs to be run in the command line with two provided arguments.
The first argument has three options:
- -dc (displays the configuration file contents)
- -dm (displays the metadata file contents)
- -rm (runs the simulation)

The second argument is the file name of the configuration file

A sample of your command line should look like: ./simulator.exe -rm -sample.cnf


## Notice <br>
simulator.c and simulator.h are completely orginal code generated by myself. This is the heart of the simulator operation.
All other .c & .h files are resource files provided by my professor Dr. Michael Leverington meant to assist the program.
